---
tags:
  - overview
  - outer
---

When mortals and other material beings die, their souls go to the [[outerlands]]. (Technically, they can end up in the borderlands under proper circumstances, but most often, it is the [[outerlands]]). The of the power to whichever deity the nearby plane belongs to. The outerlands are reflections of the realm they inhabit, allowing a soul to fully crossover if they wish. (The soul has a lot of power over where it incarnates next, be it in one of the [[Borderlands]] such as [[Faelryn]] or the [[Outerlands]] such as the [[9 Circles]]. This is done by matching energy, i.e. bringing a murderer towards more entities that tolerate such or a druid to be in a more natural realm. A soul can choose to incarnate as something new by moving beyond the veil, reincarnating to match its new home or simply visit and incarnate elsewhere). The [[Outerlands]] come in 3 different variants for each of the of the 4 realms as each outerland is affected by the dominant plane and one of the other 3. [[Ceylium|The Heavens]] bring a lawful, altruistic energy, for [[Infernis|The Hells]] a chaotic, hedonistic one, from [[The Void]], a neutral, totalitarian energy, and of [[Aun Materia|The Material]], an organic, malleable energy. [[Ceylium|The Heavens]] have energy of [[Tos|light]] and [order](Eo), often blessing, but restricting at its worst. [[Infernis|The Hells]] have a [fiery](Pyr) and [chaotic](Ner) energy, almost always dealing in destruction. [[The Void]] has a potent [[Gia|arcane]] and [conscious](Ani) energy, distilling everything to its essence or bringing great darkness and absolution. [[Aun Materia|The Material Plane]] has an [airy](Aer) and [vibrant](Brio) energy, introducing an essence of growth, development, and change.